---
layout : article_layout
title : How QR codes work?
author : Aryaman Mahajan, Ihsan Ali, Sai Praneeth, Maitreya Chitale
pub_date: 1st Jan 2024
categories : articles
img : qr_main.png
permalink : /:categories/:title.html
hover_class: 'hover-class'
bg: green
---

UPI payments have taken over the country – scan a QR code, enter PIN, and the ubiquitous "paytm par 10 rupay prapt huye" jingle replaces the fumbling for exact change. From cinemas to chai stalls, UPI payments are everywhere, all powered by simple QR codes.

But have you ever stopped to think how these QR Codes work and how do they get scanned no matter what orientation they are in, or your phone is in? Never, right? Let's see how it actually works.

In all essence, just like human languages, QR codes are, in loose analogy, sentences in a computer readable language. They have the required information packed right into them in the form of symbols. There also exist some additional symbols which provide them with added functionality and make them robust, such as the ability to be scanned at any physical orientation by the camera. There are certain procedures, protocols and algorithms which govern the way they are read and ultimately deciphered.

The primary elements of the QR codes are ‘Data Modules’. They are the black and white blocks within the code and contain nearly all the information made available to the end user. The scanning of these data modules, or the QR code, begins from the bottom right corner and proceeds in a down to up manner. Upon reaching the top of one column, it starts scanning the column to its left and proceeds down. This way, by switching directions at the boundaries, it reads the entire code.

Now, as squared as it is, since a QR code is scannable from 360 degrees, how does the scanner make sense of the bottom right, or in other words the beginning of the code?

QR codes have special markings to help scanners read them easily, even if the code is tilted or upside down. These markings come in two types:

Alignment markers: These are smaller squares with a black dot in the center, usually found on larger QR codes. They help the scanner figure out the exact direction of the code.

Finder patterns: These are the larger squares you see in the top left, top right, and bottom left corners of every QR code. They help the scanner identify the code and its size.

They enable the scanner to identify the boundaries of the QR code. They are generally larger than ‘Alignment Markers’. Token Elements called ‘Separators’ exist as white spaces between these finder patterns and actual data embeddings to separate the data in the code from these locator symbols.

So now, in the general flow of curiosity, what enables the scanner to locate these ‘finder patterns’ in an image environment which contains a variety of multi coloured objects?

This challenge is tackled by a layer of ‘Quiet Zone’ around the perimeter of the QR Code. This is basically the white space around the code, and this is what helps the scanner in locating the ‘finder patterns’ and eventually of course the QR code itself.

The beauty of QR codes lies not only in their tremendous ability to connect the physical media to online media, but more so in their ability to achieve that even after being physically tampered or distorted by up to as much as 30%.

This is the most powerful aspect of these seemingly decent looking patterns. What is at play in the background here is the glorious ‘Reed Solomon Error Correction Algorithm’. By increasing the number of modules or data blocks in the code, we can account for this error and leave the data intact.

Another technique employed to add more capability to the QR codes is known as ‘masking’. ‘Masking’ basically means flipping the colors of the dark blocks to white and vice versa. This process allows for the generation of up to 8 different masked patterns.

From amongst these 8 patterns, the one with the least penalty score, which is determined by a set of predefined rules, is finally chosen as the ‘QR Code’.

So the next time you whip out your phone to scan a QR code, take a moment to appreciate the intricate calculations happening in the background.
