---

layout : blog
title : BotHack
categories : events hackathons
link : http://bit.ly/bothack
img : bothack.jpg
permalink : /:categories/:title.html
bg: grey
---

BotHack, an exciting AI/ML-based bot hackathon, was meticulously organised by Hackmania, a prominent player in the tech event space. What sets BotHack apart is its focus on fostering innovation and pushing the boundaries of creativity in artificial intelligence and chatbot development.
 
Taking place on the 25th and 26th of March, BotHack was hosted right within the impressive premises of IIIT-Hyderabad. This strategic location allowed participants to immerse themselves in an environment conducive to learning, collaboration, and cutting-edge tech exploration.
 
One of the standout features of BotHack is the enticing array of prizes it promised. Participants had the chance to win substantial rewards for their innovative bot creations. The competition was fierce, as individuals and teams competed to demonstrate their prowess in AI and machine learning, seeking recognition for their ingenuity.
 
However, BotHack offered more than just cash prizes. It provided a unique opportunity for the top performers to intern at flydubai's prestigious Development Center in Hyderabad, India. This internship was an invaluable chance for participants to gain real-world experience, work on exciting projects, and learn from experts in the field.
 
Even more exciting, BotHack presented the possibility of incubation at flydubai's Development Center in Hyderabad, India. Being incubated by an established organisation like flydubai could catapult budding entrepreneurs and tech enthusiasts into the world of startups, providing them with resources, mentorship, and support to turn their innovative bot ideas into thriving businesses.
 
BotHack was not just a hackathon; it was an opportunity for individuals and teams to showcase their talents, win prizes, gain real-world experience through internships, and potentially launch their tech startups with the backing of flydubai. This event exemplified the spirit of innovation and collaboration that drives the AI and chatbot development community forward.
