---
layout : blog
title : Megathon 2021
categories : events hackathons
link : https://megathon.in/
img : megathon-21.jpg
permalink : /:categories/:title.html
bg: green
---


Megathon '21, IIIT Hyderabad’s flagship event, transformed into a fully online experience for the first time, making it the largest hackathon in India. With a commitment to being bigger and better, the event garnered global participation and elevated stakes, attracting 273 registered teams.

For three action-packed days, participants engaged in intense brainstorming, ideation, and coding. The event presented challenging problem statements addressing real-world issues, providing a unique opportunity for skill enhancement and innovative problem-solving.

Megathon '21 went beyond conventional hackathons by featuring thought-provoking industrial problems that pushed participants to develop exceptional solutions. The event not only offered a platform to challenge minds but also provided an enriching experience with numerous cash prizes and goodies.

The virtual stage welcomed distinguished speakers, enhancing the hackathon experience. Mr. Vikas Rachamalla, founder of Inline4 Engineering and the National Motorcycle Helpline, shared his multifaceted expertise as a Moto-Vlogger, biker, IT professional, entrepreneur, and former YouTube Ambassador.

Adding to the insightful lineup, Mr. Pradeep Kumar Jilagam, with over 17 years of expertise in the embedded sector and currently leading technology efforts for Qualcomm India's AI software team, enlightened participants on entrepreneurship and business.

Megathon '21 not only embraced the challenges of the virtual space but also united a global community of thinkers, coders, and innovators in a collective effort to address real-life challenges. It was a celebration of creativity, collaboration, and cutting-edge solutions, marking a milestone in the history of our hackathon events.
