---
layout : blog
title : Pravaha hackathon

categories : events hackathons
link : https://www.pravaha.in/makers
img : Pravaha.jpg
permalink : /:categories/:title.html
bg: red
---
IIITH and Pravaha Foundation Collaborate for Pan-India Hackathon on Sustainability Through Technology
In collaboration with the Pravaha Foundation, the International Institute of Information Technology-Hyderabad (IIIT-H) organised a pan-India Hackathon for students aged 10 to 17 years. This Hackathon, held from November 14th, 2022, to January 29th, 2023, aimed to engage young minds in addressing critical issues related to sustainability and technology.
The theme of the Hackathon was "Sustainability through Technology," focusing on solutions for climate change and achieving the United Nations' Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) #10 and #13. The young participants showcased their problem-solving abilities, design thinking, presentation skills, and environmental awareness.
In the final stage, category one students (10-13 years old) worked on solutions for automated water management, specifically monitoring and controlling water usage. Category two students (14-17 years old) tackled automated disaster management, including forest fires, litho-disasters, and waterborne disasters. Teams leveraged robotics, IoT, and app development to execute their innovative solutions.
The evaluation panel, consisting of esteemed individuals from academia, economics, and environmental fields, assessed the teams' solutions and presentations. The panel not only evaluated the model solutions but also provided valuable feedback and opportunities for real-life implementation.
Winners and runners-up in the finals received cash prizes of up to Rs. 25,000, mementos, and certificates. Additionally, the winners earned the opportunity to participate in an international Hackathon organised by Pravaha.
This Hackathon not only fostered a spirit of innovation and consciousness among the young participants but also contributed to their development in various areas. The event demonstrated the potential of technology to address pressing global challenges and build a more sustainable future.
The Hackathon's success has led to further support for two teams, selected for prototyping and mentoring to enhance their solutions and bring them closer to real-world implementation, with Pravaha actively working with its partners to make this happen.
